feat: adds deploying content (#127)
posit-dev/connect-cookbook: 14-mlops/01-deploying-content/index.qmd

---
title: Deploying Content
---

## Problem

> You want to deploy content to Posit Connect using a program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You want to deploy content to Posit Connect programmatically.
```

maybe

## Solution

:::{.panel-tabset group="language"}

## Python

Create content using the `content` attribute.

```python
from posit import connect

client = connect.Client()
content = client.content.create(name='shakespeare', title='Shakespeare Word Clouds')
```

> Let's use [Polars](https://pola.rs) to view the created content.

Reviewer: Might be worth explaining that creating a content item creates… essentially a placeholder that you then upload bundles to in order to deploy them. Maybe that's a good thing to put under the Solution, or the Discussion. (I'm torn with that kind of thing a lot with this format, I realize — like, stuff which seems like it might be handy knowledge up-front to understand what you're seeing should prob go under Solution even if it's more than a short sentence?)

Author: We should link to the "viewing content" recipe here. That page should detail the different fields in the response object.

        specific to your type of project (`notebook`, `api`, `dash`, `bokeh`,
        or `streamlit`):

        ```bash
        rsconnect write-manifest ${TYPE} ./
        ```

        See the [rsconnect-python documentation](https://docs.posit.co/rsconnect-python/) for details.

    -   For R content, this includes a full snapshot of all of your package
        requirements. The `manifest.json` is created with the
        `rsconnect::writeManifest()` function.

        -   From the command-line:

            ```bash
            # This directory should be your current working directory.
            Rscript -e 'rsconnect::writeManifest()'
            ```

        -   From an R console:

            ```r
            # This directory should be your current working directory.
            rsconnect::writeManifest()
            ```

        ::: {.callout-note}
        The `manifest.json` associated with an R Markdown site (e.g.
        [Bookdown](https://bookdown.org)) must specify a "site" content category.

        ```r
        # From an R console:
        rsconnect::writeManifest(contentCategory = "site")
        ```
        :::

>     ::: {.callout-note}
>     If your Posit Connect installation uses off-host content execution with
>     Kubernetes, you can optionally specify which image you want Connect to use
>     when building your content:
> 
>     ```r
>     # From an R console (with the content in your current working directory):
>     rsconnect::writeManifest(
>       image = "ghcr.io/rstudio/content-base:r4.0.5-py3.8.8-jammy")
>     ```
> 
>     ```bash
>     # Using the `rsconnect-python` package:
>     rsconnect write-manifest ${TYPE} \
>         --image "ghcr.io/rstudio/content-base:r4.0.5-py3.8.8-jammy" \
>         ./
>     ```
> 
>     You can only use an image that has been configured by your administrator.
>     You can see a list of available images by logging in to Connect and
>     clicking the **Documentation** button at the top of the page. See the User
>     Guide pages for [publishing from R](/user/publishing-r/index.md#target-image)
>     and [publishing from the command line](/user/publishing-cli/index.md#target-image) for more details.
>     :::

Reviewer: This part, with a trailing callout note in a bullet, looks super janky when rendered. It should at least be indented underneath the prior note (logically I can't see a reason to outdent it like this).

```suggestion
        ::: {.callout-note}
        If your Posit Connect installation uses off-host content execution with
        Kubernetes, you can optionally specify which image you want Connect to use
        when building your content:

        ```r
        # From an R console (with the content in your current working directory):
        rsconnect::writeManifest(
        image = "ghcr.io/rstudio/content-base:r4.0.5-py3.8.8-jammy")
        ```

        ```bash
        # Using the `rsconnect-python` package:
        rsconnect write-manifest ${TYPE} \
            --image "ghcr.io/rstudio/content-base:r4.0.5-py3.8.8-jammy" \
            ./
        ```

        You can only use an image that has been configured by your administrator.
        You can see a list of available images by logging in to Connect and
        clicking the **Documentation** button at the top of the page. See the User
        Guide pages for [publishing from R](/user/publishing-r/index.md#target-image)
        and [publishing from the command line](/user/publishing-cli/index.md#target-image) for more details.
        :::
```

Create your bundle `.tar.gz` file once you have collected the set of files to
include. Below is an example that archives a simple Shiny application. The
`app.R` contains the R source and `data` is a directory with data files loaded
by the application:

```bash
tar czf bundle.tar.gz manifest.json app.R data

> ```

Reviewer: I feel like the snippet for what goes in the tar file should probably come above the long set of bullets about what could go in it.
